Retail and Warehouse Sales Analysis
Project Description

This project performs a detailed analysis of retail and warehouse sales data to uncover business insights, supplier performance, and seasonal sales trends.
The analysis helps understand how different suppliers, item categories, and channels contribute to total revenue, providing actionable insights for business optimization.

Objectives

Perform data cleaning and exploratory analysis on retail sales data.

Visualize sales patterns and supplier performance.

Identify KPIs, top-performing categories, and growth opportunities.

Provide data-driven insights and recommendations for future sales strategies.

Key Features

Data Cleaning: Removed duplicates, handled missing values, and standardized column names.

Feature Engineering: Created total sales and time-based features.

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA): Examined overall, supplier-wise, and category-wise sales.

Visualization: Highlighted key trends through charts and graphs.

Insights and Recommendations: Derived actionable strategies based on data trends.

Libraries Used

pandas

numpy

matplotlib

seaborn

Usage Instructions

Install required libraries
pip install -r requirements.txt

Run the analysis
python retail_sales_analysis.py

Review visualizations and insights generated in the console and graphs.

Key Outputs

Cleaned and structured retail data ready for visualization.

KPI calculations such as total sales, average monthly sales, and top supplier.

Visual insights on monthly trends, item category performance, and supplier rankings.

Actionable business recommendations for decision-making.

Dataset

Source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/abdullah0a/retail-sales-data-with-seasonal-trends-and-marketing

File Used: Retail and wherehouse Sale.csv

Attributes include:

Year and Month of sales

Supplier and Item details

Retail and Warehouse sales

Product category and transaction information

Visualizations

Key plots and charts generated include:

Monthly Sales Trends

Retail vs Warehouse Sales Comparison

Top 10 Suppliers by Total Sales

Sales by Item Type (Category)

You can save these charts in an "assets" folder and add them to your GitHub repository.

Contributions

Feel free to fork this repository and submit pull requests.
All contributions that enhance analysis or visualizations are welcome!